---
layout: lesson
root: ../..
title: R Reference
---

#### Basic Operations

*   Use `variable <- value` to assign a value to a variable.
*   `#` starts a comment.
*   Statements in a block must be surrounded by curly braces `{ }`.
*   `?thing` displays the help for `thing`.
*   `length(thing)` produces the length of a collection.
*   `c(value1, value2, value3, ...)` creates a vector.
*   `vector_name[i]` selects the i'th value from a vector.
*   `mean`, `max`, and `min()` calculate simple statistics.
*   `plot` creates simple visualizations.
*   `list.files(pattern = "txt")` returns the names of all files that contain "txt" in their name.

#### Data frames

*   `dim(dat)` gives the dimensions of a data frame.
*   `dat[x, y]` selects a single element from a data frame.
*   `dat[i, ]` selects the i'th row; `dat[, i]` selects the i'th column.
*   `low:high` specifies a slice including elements from `low` to `high`.
*   `apply(dat, 1, mean)` calculates the mean of each row.
*   `apply(dat, 2, mean)` calculates the mean of each column.

#### Functions

*   `name <- function(...args...)` defines a new function.
*   `name <- function(arg = default)` specifies a default value for a parameter.
*   Call a function using `name(...values...)`.

#### Control Flow

*   Create a `for` loop to process elements in a collection one at a time:

        for (variable in collection) {
            ...body...
		}

*   Create a conditional using `if` and `else`:

        if (condition_1) {
            ...body...
		} else if (condition_2) {
            ...body...
		} else {
            ...body...
		}

*   Use `==` to test for equality.
*   `X & Y` is only true if both X **and** Y are true.
*   `X | Y` is true if either X **or** Y, or both, are true.
*   Use `stopifnot(condition)` to check that something is true when the program is running.

#### Using R from the command-line

*   `commandArgs(trailingOnly = TRUE)` returns the command-line arguments.
*   `file("stdin")` reads from standard input.
*   `cat(vec, sep = "\n")` writes to standard ouput each element of `vec` on its own line.
